# smithy-bindgen

This crate provides macros for generating rust bindings from smithy interfaces.
For most uses of smithy interfaces used to generate rust sources,
this can eliminate the need for [`build.rs` and `codegen.toml` files](https://wasmcloud.dev/interfaces/codegen-toml/).
`codegen.toml` is still needed to generate bindings for other languages.

> ### Feedback welcome!
> This is a first pass at code generation macro, inspired by `wit-bindgen`. If you have used `codegen.toml`, please let us know if this works as a replacement. (one known omission: the `params` setting from codegen.toml is not yet available in this macro)
> Other variations may be introduced in the future: one for actor-specific interfaces, provider-specific interfaces, etc.

## Quick-start

We recommend that the `smithy_bindgen!` macro is used inside a `mod` declaration,
or by itself in a separate rust source file, to avoid symbol conflicts with your code.

If you're using a wasmcloud first-party interface, you can specify its path name
(relative to the wasmcloud/interfaces repo), followed by its namespace:

```
// [dependencies]
// smithy-bindgen = "0.1"

mod httpserver {
  smithy_bindgen::smithy_bindgen!("httpserver/httpserver.smithy","org.wasmcloud.interfaces.httpserver");
}
use httpserver::{HttpRequest,HttpResponse};

```

If you have a smithy interface defined locally, you can load it

```
mod amazing_foo {
  smithy_bindgen::smithy_bindgen!(
     { path: "./amazing_foo.smithy" }, "org.example.interfaces.foo"
  );
}
use amazing_foo::{Bazinga, Wowza};
```

Additional syntax forms are listed below.


> **Note** This doesn't replace all the functionality of wasmCloud's interface crates. A few of the wasmCloud interface crates have hand-generated helper functions that are not part of the smithy files. For example, `wasmcloud-interface-httpserver` contains `impl Default` and a few constructors for `HttpResponse`. Those are not generated by `smithy_bindgen!`. We are planning to move those extra helper functions into a future wasmcloud sdk.


## Syntax

The first parameter of the `smithy_bindgen!` macro can take one of three forms.
The second parameter is the namespace used for code generation.

- one wasmcloud first-party interface

  The single-file paramter is a path relative to the wasmcloud interfaces git repo `wasmcloud/interfaces`

  ```
  smithy_bindgen!("httpserver/httpserver.smithy", "org.wasmcloud.interfaces.httpserver");
  ````

  The above is shorthand for the following:
  ```
  smithy_bindgen!({
    url: "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/wasmcloud/interfaces",
    files: ["httpserver/httpserver.smithy"]
  }, "org.wasmcloud.interfaces.httpserver" );
  ```

- one Model Source

  ```
  smithy-bindgen!({
    path: "../interfaces/foo.smithy",
  }, "org.example.interfaces.foo" );
  ````

- array of Model Sources

  ```
  smithy-bindgen!([
    { path: "../interfaces/foo.smithy" },
    { url: "keyvalue/keyvalue.smithy" },
  ], "org.example.interfaces.foo" );
  ```

## Model Source

 A model source contains a url or path, and an optional list of files.
 The `files` field may be omitted if the `url` or `path` contains the full path to the `.smithy` file.
 All the following are (syntactically) valid model sources:
 ```
 { url: "https://example.com/interfaces/foo.smithy" }
 { url: "https://example.com/interfaces", files: [ "foo.smithy", "bar.smithy" ]}
 { path: "../interfaces/foo.smithy" }
 { path: "../interfaces", files: ["foo.smithy", "bar.smithy"]}
 ```

 If a model source structure contains no url base and no path base,
 the url for the github wasmcloud interface repo is used:
 ```
 url: "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/wasmcloud/interfaces"
 ```

## jsdelivr.net urls

`cdn.jsdelivr.net` mirrors open source github repositories.
The [url syntax](https://www.jsdelivr.com/?docs=gh) can optionally include
a github branch, tag, or commit sha.

## Common files

Wasmcloud common model files are always automatically included when compiling models
(If you've used `codegen.toml` files, you may remember that they required all base models
to be specified explicitly.)

## Namespace

Models may include symbols defined in other models via the `use` command.
Only the symbols defined in the namespace (`smithy_bindgen!`'s second parameter)
will be included in the generated code.






